okay I want to bring you some breaking
news 17 countries including the United
States have released a joint statement
in the last few minutes calling on
Israel and Hamas to do whatever is
necessary to agree on a Gaza ceasefire
deal that would also secure the release
of captives held in
Gaza now uh just a reminder the Israeli
Governor has banned Al jazer from
reporting in Israel which is why our
correspondent Imran Khan now joins us
from the Jordanian capital man so uh
this statement coming out Imran just in
the last few minutes uh talk us through
what what more you know and whether
there's been any response uh from Israel
to
it well it is a joint statement like you
say from 17 different countries they
include Argentina Austria Brazil France
Germany uh Poland the UK Spain Thailand
and others they say as Leaders of
countries deeply concerned for hostages
held by Hamas in Gaza including many of
our own citizens we fully support the
movement towards a ceasefire and hostage
release deal now on the table and as
outlined by President Biden on May the
31st 2024 there is no time to lose we
call on Hamas to close this agreement
and Israel is ready to move forward with
and begin the process of releasing our
citizens we note that this agreement
would lead to an immediate ceasefire and
Rehabilitation of Gaza together with
security SEC assurances for Israelis and
Palestinians and opportunities for a
more enduring long-term peace and two-
State solution at this decisive moment
we call on the leaders of Israel as well
as Hamas to make whatever final
compromises are necessary to close this
deal and bring relief to the families of
our hostages as well as those on both
sides of this terrible conflict
including civilian population it's time
for the war to end and this deal is the
necessary starting point this is very
clearly designed to put pressure on both
the negotiating parties on Israel and on
Hamas but what we're hearing from
Egyptian sources is that there is no
breakthrough so far in the ceasefire
talks we're hearing uh that the Karan
Egyptian mediators have actually spoken
to uh Hamas representatives and to the
us but they say they're nowhere near a
deal uh there's also a statement that we
had uh from a senior Hamas official Sami
aburi On th
he says while the group welcomes Biden's
idea the US draft resolution at the UN
Security Council was dependent on an
Israeli ceasefire proposal a mass has
already seen and rejected the US
document they go on to say um speaks of
an open-ended negotiation with no
deadline it speaks of a stage during
which the occupation regains its
hostages and resumes the war so the two
sides have a lot of distance between
them Hamas quite clearly want a
permanent ceas Israel wants the option
if Hamas breaks the deal to go back to
war Israel's got a lot of domestic
pressure as well this is not popular
with the far-right Coalition the people
that actually make up Benjamin
netanyahu's government and are keeping
in power they are completely against any
kind of three-phase deal that the US
President Joe Biden has proposed it's
going to be very difficult also for the
prime minister to stomach the words to
States solution he's been against that
for a very long time almost throughout
his uh career and it's going to be an
incredibly tough sell to his Coalition
but this is likely just the beginning of
a wave of international pressure
designed to get the two parties at least
a the
table okay thank you for that Imran Khan
there for us and Aman uh and and just a
reminder again that Benjamin Net's
cabinet has banned Al jaaz and Israel
which is why we are reporting out of
Jordan
let's get more on this with roxan for
man for man she's a lecturer on
international relations off the Middle
East at the University of Cambridge he
joins us now from London thank you for
joining us today so I wanted to get your
reaction to the statement that has come
through in the last sort of half an hour
from the White House what do you make of
it and what does it tell us about the
pressure the United States is clearly
under to get a deal
done well I think it's an interesting
statement because because it shows that
the United States is trying to uh
Galvanize its uh allies to um to come
around and uh support its view um and to
put pressure on the Israelis and I think
what we're seeing is that it's a
desperate uh act by Biden he's finding
that neither side either Hamas or Israel
are actually very supportive of the
wording or the time frame of the
uh proposal he put out last week so I
think he's trying to now use the
International Community and this is also
partially to put pressure on his uh
opponents and those that don't support
him in the United States since it's the
middle of an election year as well
interesting you use the word desperate
uh he made that speech about a week ago
now and clearly things have not gone the
way he expected do you think this is
going to make any
difference I really don't think it will
I think the problems lie in the uh
government of Netanyahu and uh the the
support that he requires from the far
right they have uh described his
proposal the Biden proposal as Reckless
that's been gavier one of the uh leaders
of a party that uh Netanyahu relies on
for his government and the Hamas uh
complaint that this does not actually
guarantee a uh permanent ceasefire means
that they cannot uh supported it fully
either so I think this is not something
that
International um together uh pressure is
going to make any difference to this is
relying on internal political faction
and roxan what do you make of the fact
that they uh that the US is putting the
ball back again in hamas's court uh as
if they are the ones who have to make
this decision to accept the deal I'm
just going to read out one of the lines
in the statement we call on Hamas to
close this agreement ment that Israel is
ready to move forward with and begin the
process of releasing releasing our
citizens uh over the over the course of
the last week I mean Israel's made it
pretty clear they are not on board uh
with this ceasefire
proposal well I think that's a uh a
symbol of of many of the difficulties
that Biden has encountered in trying to
put together a a uh a policy on this and
um his uh
uh Alliance is clearly with Israel so he
is trying to to point out that it is
Hamas that is uh take the statement is
very interesting because he points out
that hamus is the one that's holding
hostages not only that are Israeli but
are citizens of uh a number of the
countries that have signed this
statement that came out today so I think
they are trying to highlight the fact
that it's hamus that is the one that
began this that is holding the hos
hostages and that is why they are able
to try to put pressure on Hamas more
than in fact he is willing to point out
that he can put pressure on uh Israel in
this particular case really good to get
your perspective roxan fan fayan
lecturer on international relations at
the Middle East at the University of
Cambridge make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer